---
layout: post
title:  "humans.txt"
date:   2019-11-15 02:00:06 -0600
fullurl: "{{%- site.url -%}}" + "/web-development/2019/11/15/humans.html"
categories: web-development
content-type: "post"
summary: "humans.txt and my implementation"
---
## What is humans.txt

Those who have dabbled with web development might be familiar with robots.txt, but humans.txt is not as common and doesn't have as obvious a use case. So what is it for?  
The idea of humans.txt is, simply put, to highlight the humans involved in making the web site. The idea is to be able to know more about the different people involved in making the web site, and to include this information in a way that doesn't distract from other content on the site, but that is still easily accessible.

## How is it implemented here

Deciding how to write the humans.txt for this little blog was a bit tricky. This website was made by taking an already made jekyll site prepared in a docker container and to start adding and modifying that base. As such I'm a little bit unsure of my own role. Am I the creator of this site, or would that be the course management of 1dv022 who actually made all this stuff, boilerplate and all?  
I decided to give my own title as developer/responsible student, as I am in charge of developing this site, and to make sure to thank the course management for their role in making the foundation for this website.  
Below is what my humans.txt for this site looked like on November 11th 2019.

{% highlight text %}
/* TEAM */
Developer/Responsible student: Jacob Skoog
Site: https://twitter.com/SkoogJacob
Twitter: SkoogJacob
Location: Jonkoping, Sweden

/* THANKS */
Name: LNU Course 1dv022 course management
Thanks to the course management for setting
up the static website docker container with working dependencies
so that I can focus on working with the tools
without having to understand every detail about them.

/* SITE */
Last update: 2019/11/15
Standards: HTML5, CSS3
Components: Jekyll, Sass
Software: Visual Studio Code, Docker, Git Bash, Github
{% endhighlight %}
